Bit Quest II (bitquest2.v14.bin)
by Brian W. Shea (Metalbabble)
2019/01/16
Copyright 2019 Brian Shea / metalbabble.com
http://atariage.com/forums/topic/286977-bit-quest-ii-new-homebrew/

INTRODUCTION
Bit Quest II continues the story of Bit Quest. After rescuing the princess,
the warrior is captured by the ruthless Baron Von Darkbit! The bit
princess must now wield the ancient sword and rescue her friend from
the evil Baron's dark castle. However, the Baron has locked his castle
with 4 magical keys which must be found if the princess is to succeed in
her quest.

THE WORLD OF BIT QUEST II
Bit Quest II features an even larger world to explore with many hidden
dungeons scattered throughout the many lands. The world is broken up
into several major areas: the southern shore, the forest, the desert, the
mountains, and the icy summit. The evil Baron Von Darkbit's castle is
located on the icy summit behind a maze of ice. Each area has hidden
dungeons and monsters that reside there.

HOW TO PLAY
• Gameplay is simple! Use the joystick to move the princess, and
press the fire button to attack with the sword.
• Pressing the GAME SELECT switch will display a map and show an
inventory of the keys you have found. Pressing the switch again,
or hitting the fire button will resume the game.
• The GAME RESET switch can be used to start the game over at the
bit's castle.
• The left difficulty switch controls how strong some monsters are.
• On the title screen, press either the fire button or the reset switch
to begin a new game.

OBJECTIVE
Explore the world, and find the 4 hidden keys to unlock
the Baron's castle and rescue the bit warrior! Watch out
for monsters and their attacks. Your health is
represented as hearts on the bottom of the screen, each
hit will reduce the hearts by 1. Hearts can be restored with power ups,
and the maximum amount of hearts can be increased with special items
as well.

SUB-SCREEN
Pressing the Game Select switch will display a sub-screen. On the subscreen
you can review your current map position, along with seeing
which keys you have found so far in your quest. Pressing the Game
Select switch or fire button will return you to the game.

DUNGEONS
Dungeons contain some of the strongest
monsters, but also important items.
Every dungeon is laid out differently;
don't get lost!

GAME OVER!
If you run out of hearts, a warning beep will sound. If you take any
additional hits, it's GAME OVER! On the red game over screen you can
press the joystick button to start back at the bits' castle (keeping your
current items), or use the reset switch to start a new game.

POWER UPS
Health-ball: Sometimes enemies will drop one when defeated, restores 1 heart
Cherries: Completely restores all hearts
Magic Key: There are 4 keys hidden throughout the world, get all 4 to unlock the final dungeon!
Heart Upgrade: Increases your maximum hearts by one.

ACHIEVEMENTS TO UNLOCK
For an extra challenge, you can receive achievement crowns by
completing Bit Quest II while meeting certain requirements. You can
win up to three crowns...

Achievement 1: “The no-hitter” Make it through the adventure without taking any damage.
Achievement 2: “Catch ‘em all” Find every item in every dungeon.
Achievement 3: “Minimalism” Complete the game by traveling through the least amount of screens as possible.


CAN YOU UNLOCK ALL THREE?

Additional Information
• Bit Quest II is compatible with any Atari 2600 VCS emulator that
supports DPC+ emulation, such as Stella (Available at:
https://stella-emu.github.io/ )
• The original Bit Quest is also available at
http://atari.metalbabble.com/

Thank you for playing Bit Quest II for Atari 2600!
BIT QUEST II
Created by Brian Shea
http://www.metalbabble.com/






Change log

v1.0 - Initial release 1/11/19
v1.1 - Fixed frame count issue between screen transitions
v1.2 - Introduced map sub-screen (use game select switch)
v1.3 - Fixed sub-screen wall break glitch
v1.3.1 - Included full color manual
v1.4 - Introduced achievements (see manual for details)