Evil Magician Returns (emr-pal60.bin)
by Byte Knight
6/7/09

http://atariage.com/forums/topic/139348-evil-magician-returns-adventure-type-game/

Hi guys,

I've been lurking here for awhile and decided it was time for me to make a game... 
Adventure has always been one of my favorites, so this game is based on the Evil Magician mentioned in the Adventure manual. 
The premise is that his dragons are now dead, so he and his apprentice have returned and captured the golden chalice. 
The Evil Magician (red wizard) has the ability to shoot fireballs, his apprentice (white wizard) does not. 
You too have the ability to shoot fireballs after you've acquired the staff. The red wizard tends to guard certain items, 
while the white wizard avoids them. You've also brought a backpack with you this time so you can carry multiple items. 
Otherwise, it's very similar to Adventure.
I plan on having 3 levels like Adventure, so this one is somewhere between level 1 and 2 difficulty. 
I'll probably get rid of the red wizard's fireballs on level 1.

The game has no sound and I'd like to add the original Adventure sounds but I've got no idea how to do this...

Thanks to Batari for making this possible! What do you guys think?

Update 6/7/09
Here is the latest release along with manual and map:

Attached File  emr10.bin   16KB   http://atariage.com/forums/index.php?app=core&module=attach&section=attach&attach_id=131487

PAL Version here:
Attached File  emr-pal60.bin   16KB   http://atariage.com/forums/index.php?app=core&module=attach&section=attach&attach_id=204233

Attached File  EMRmanual.pdf   209.8KB   http://atariage.com/forums/index.php?app=core&module=attach&section=attach&attach_id=126423



HOW TO PLAY
On your last Adventure many years ago, you slayed the Evil Magician's
three dragons and reclaimed the Enchanted Chalice, bringing
peace to your Kingdom. Now, the Evil Magician has returned and
stolen the chalice back, plunging your Kingdom into darkness. With
his dragons dead, the Evil Magician and his apprentice now personally
guard the chalice. Rumor has it that the Evil Magician has
been creating a new creature even more powerful than his previous
dragons to guard the chalice as a last defense.
As in your last Adventure, the object of the game is to rescue the Enchanted Chalice
and place it inside the Golden Castle where it belongs. Once
again, this will not be an easy quest. The Evil Magician (red wizard)
has the ability to cast fireballs. His apprentice (white wizard)
has not yet learned this skill, but his touch is fatal.
There are three castles in your Kingdom: the Golden Castle, the
Gray Castle, and the Skull Castle. Each castle can be opened
with the proper Key. Inside the Evil Magician's Gray Castle you
will find multiple rooms. The castles are separated by labyrinths
which have changed since your last Adventure.


ITEMS
Scattered throughout the kingdom are certain items to help you in your search for the
Enchanted Chalice. To pick up an item, simply touch it. You will hear a sound that tells
you that you have picked up that item, and the item will appear in your inventory at the
bottom of the screen. On this Adventure, you've remembered your satchel so that you
can carry multiple items.

To open any castle, touch the castle while in possession of the proper key. Like the red
wizard, you too have the ability to cast fireballs once you've acquired the Fire Staff
(curved stick). Simply press the red controller button while moving left or right to fire.


MAGIC
The red wizard tends to guard certain items while the white wizard likes to avoid them.
This can be used to your advantage when a wizard is chasing you.
Occasionally, the white wizard will cast a spell on an item to make it deadly to the touch.
The white wizard has to be nearby an item in order for his spell to work. A clue that an
item may be cursed is when it shifts position slightly on the screen.
Like the original Adventure, a secret message awaits you.


CONSOLE CONTROLS

Choose the skill level you wish to play by depressing the game select switch. To begin
play push the red controller button.
If you get shot or touched by one of the wizards or creatures, you
will lose a life. Just push the red controller button and you will be
"reincarnated" and placed back in front of the Golden Castle. Unfortunately,
any wizards or creatures that you have killed will also be
reincarnated. If you were carrying the Enchanted Chalice, it will return
to the room that it was originally in.
If you have finished one game or wish to start a new game, depress the game reset
switch.

DIFFICULTY SWITCHES

When the left difficulty switch is in the A (pro) position, you will get five lives. When it is
in the B (amateur) position, you will get ten lives. You lives are displayed in the lower
left corner.
When the right difficulty switch is in the A (pro) position, you will play a timed game. A
timer bar will tick down in the lower right corner. When this counter reaches zero, the
game is over. When the switch is in the B (amateur) position, you will have unlimited
time.


SKILL LEVELS

Level 1
This Kingdom is the easiest skill level. When you push the red controller button to begin
play, you will see the fire staff locked in the Golden Castle. Move down to the next room
to get the Golden Key to open the Golden Castle. You can now explore the Kingdom
while being able to defend yourself. On this level, the red wizard cannot cast fireballs
and there are no creatures.

Level 2
This Kingdom has items that are more difficult to find. The red wizard can now cast
fireballs. His new creature may appear as well...

Level 3
This Kingdom is the hardest and has items in random positions. The red wizard can
cast fireballs, and he has multiple apprentices. The new creature may appear as well.

Speed EMR!
To play any level in this "beat the clock" mode, switch the right difficulty switch to A
(pro). You must return the Enchanted Chalice to the Golden Castle before the bar in
right lower corner disappears. The red wizard will not cast fireballs in this mode. You
will need to move quickly and gather items efficiently in order to win!