EMR II - Evil Magician Returns upgraded to DPC+! (EMRII32.bin)
by Byte Knight, 
11/26/16

http://atariage.com/forums/topic/201071-emr-ii-evil-magician-returns-upgraded-to-dpc/


Hey guys,

I know you're getting sick of my Adventure games, but I decided to update EMR to DPC+. 
EMR II is a truer vision of an Adventure sequel that I had in mind when I was thinking up EMR, but didn't have the knowledge or the resources. 
I still don't have any knowledge, but I've got better resources thanks to batari basic's DPC+ kernel!

EMR II has the same basic premise as EMR in which you must reclaim the chalice from the Evil Magician and his apprentice. Here are some differences between EMR II & EMR:

• Upgraded sprites and background graphics thanks to PacManRed!
• Some mazes are from Adventure with new twists, some mazes are new.
• Dark mazes are back.
• There are now four castles to explore, complete with mazes and secret passageways.
• Home castle gate is now open - why should you have to open your own castle?
• The bat is back as the great randomizer of items.
• You can only carry one item like Adventure.
• The staff also acts as a magnet to attract objects by holding down the button.
• You can attract the staff to yourself by holding down the fire button.
• The wizards cast spells that make you go half speed.
• The Evil Magician and his apprentice have the ability to raise each other from the dead when in the same room as each other.
• A new hideous Dragon created by the Evil Magician guards the chalice on Levels 2 & 3.


Full release with text manual 11/26/16!

Attached File  EMRII32.bin   32KB   http://atariage.com/forums/index.php?app=core&module=attach&section=attach&attach_id=479234
Attached File  EMRIImanual.pdf   47.7KB   http://atariage.com/forums/index.php?app=core&module=attach&section=attach&attach_id=476370

Thanks to PacManRed for the graphics, RevEng for the titlescreen and technical help, AtariBrian for alpha testing and TheGoldenBand for the titlescreen music!



HOW TO PLAY
On your first Adventure, you laid waste to the Evil
Magician's three dragons and reclaimed the Enchanted
Chalice, bringing peace to your Kingdom. Enraged, the
Evil Magician has returned and stolen the chalice again,
plunging your Kingdom back into darkness. With his
dragons annihilated, the Evil Magician and his apprentice
now personally guard the chalice. Rumor has it that the
Evil Magician has created an even more hideous creature
to guard the chalice as a line of last-defense.
As in your last Adventure, the object of the game is to
rescue the Enchanted Chalice and return it to the Gold
Castle walls. Once again, this will not be an easy quest.
The Evil Magician (red wizard) and his apprentice (grey
wizard) can cast spells that make you weak and
susceptible to attack. Their touch is deadly, but all hope
is not lost. They are vulnerable to attack by the magical
Fire Staff— swords will not help you in this Adventure.
The Evil Magician will succumb to two hits from the staff
and his apprentice needs only one hit. They may not stay
dead however— they can use their spells of resurrection
to revive each other if a live wizard comes in close
proximity to a dead one.
There are four castles in your Kingdom: the Gold Castle,
the White Castle, the Red Castle, and the Grey Castle.
Your home castle, the Gold Castle, is already open, but
the other castles need to be opened with the proper Key.
Inside the castles are multiple rooms, some of which are
dark and can only be explored by torchlight. The castles
are separated by the familiar labyrinths, but your old
pathways will just lead to dead-ends.
Scattered throughout the kingdom are certain items to
help you in your search for the Enchanted Chalice. To
pick up an item, simply touch it, and you can only carry
one item at a time. To open any castle, touch the castle
gate while in possession of the proper key. The white
castle key will open up the White Castle, the red dragon
key will open up the Red Castle, and the grey skull key
will open up the Grey Castle.


CONSOLE CONTROLS
Once the titlescreen is done scrolling, which you can skip
by hitting the joystick button, select the skill level you wish
to play by pushing the game select switch or moving the
joystick.
When the left difficulty switch is in the A (pro) position,
you will get five lives. When it is in the B (amateur)
position, you will get unlimited lives. You lives are
displayed at the bottom of the screen.
To begin play push the red controller button.
If you are touched by one of the wizards or creatures, you
will lose a life. Just push the red controller button and
you will be "reincarnated" and placed back in front of the
Golden Castle. Unfortunately, any wizards that you have
killed will also be reincarnated.

SKILL LEVELS
Level 1: This Kingdom is the easiest skill level. There is
not a bat to steal your items and no creature guarding the
Golden Chalice. The Fire Staff is conveniently located
directly above you in the Gold Castle. Use this level to
familiarize yourself with the mazes.

Level 2: This Kingdom has items that are in fixed
positions but more difficult to find. The great thief, the
bat, is ever-present, and the Evil Magician’s latest
hideous invention guards the Golden Chalice.
Level 3: This Kingdom is the hardest and has items in
random positions. It is otherwise similar to Level 2.

ITEMS
Fire Staff: This magical staff is your most important
possession and is the only weapon you can use against
the wizards. Push the fire button to hurl a fireball at them.
The staff can also attract objects by holding down the fire
button. Likewise, you can attract the staff to yourself by
holding down the fire button.

Red Key (Dragon Key): This key opens the Red Castle
with the Dragon Gate.

White Key (Castle Key): This key opens the White
Castle’s gate.

Grey Key (Skull Key): This key opens the Grey Castle
with the Skull Gate.

Enchanted Chalice: This is the source of the Evil
Magician’s power. It is said that this is the only object that
can ultimately destroy the Evil Magician. Return in to
your castle walls and find out!

ENEMIES:
The Bat: This thief loves to take items from you at the
most inopportune times. A fireball from the staff won’t
hurt him, but it may make him drop whatever he’s
carrying.

The Apprentice (Grey Wizard): Corrupted by the Evil
Magician, he does the dirty-work for him. It takes one
fireball from the Fire Staff to kill him. He can cast
weakness-causing spells that slow you down, and revival
spells to bring his master back to life.

Evil Magician (Red Wizard): Here is the mastermind
behind the heist of Enchanted Chalice and all of the
chaos that followed. It takes two fireballs from the Fire
Staff to kill him. He can cast the same spells as his
apprentice.

Chalice Guardian: Little is known about this
gruesome creature, as few have seen it and lived
to tell about it. Rumored to be impervious to
fireballs.

STRATEGIES
• Try to take out the wizards in the rooms below
your castle where you’ll have more room to
maneuver.
• If both wizards are in the same room as you,
RUN - even if you have the staff!
• The kingdom is full of secret exits - learn to use
them to escape the wizards and the bat.
• Having trouble grabbing the chalice from its
guardian? Use the staff from above or below to
attract it towards you. Or use the bat’s thievery
to your advantage…
• Your home castle room is safe from intruders for
the most part.