Sand Castles (sandcastles.bin)
by Brian W. Shea (Metalbabble)
2017/11/26


Thank you for downloading Sand Castles for Atari 2600!

"sandcastles.bin" is the game's ROM file and should be playable in many 
Atari 2600 VCS emulators such as Stella (available here: https://stella-emu.github.io/)

For details on gameplay, please view the included manual PDF. In summary: 
jump and shoot the enemies to clear each level - but don't take too long or 
you'll get chased by the "reaper". Left difficulty switch controls game 
difficulty, right switch turns music on/off. This game is also compatible with SEGA Genesis controllers!

If you are interested in obtaining a physical copy of Sand Castles, or 
any of my Atari 2600 games - please contact me via metalbabble.com 

Have fun!
-------------------------------------
http://www.metalbabble.com/


PDF:
The Story
Monsters have invaded Sandcastle
island, home of Jack the apple. Your
mission is to defeat the monsters and
their ruthless leader.
Run, jump, and shoot your way
through the world of SAND CASTLE. In
each level you will be faced with new
challenges and monsters to defeat –
but don’t take too long, or the reaper 
will appear and chase you…
Good luck!


The World of SAND CASTLE
? Levels 1-4: Sunset beach
? Levels 5-9: McIntosh mountains
? Levels 10-14: The Cortland caverns
? Levels 15-19: Sand castles in the sky
? Levels 20+ ????

THANK YOU FOR PLAYING SANDCASTLES FOR ATARI 2600

How to Play
Shoot apple seeds at the monsters to defeat them. Defeat all the
monsters in the level to progress to the next level.
On the bottom-right of the screen is a health bar. If you come in
contact with an enemy, the health bar will be decreased. If the health
bar is completely emptied, or you fall off the screen - you will lose a life.

Game Modes
? Use the RIGHT difficulty switch to enable or disable music. (A=off,
B=on)
? Use the LEFT difficulty switch to control game difficulty.
(A=Advanced, B=Beginner)
Difficulty A:
? Health is not restored between levels
Difficulty B:
? Health is restored between each level
? Long time before the reaper appears!


Controls
“SAND CASTLES” supports both traditional Atari 2600 joysticks and
SEGA Genesis controllers!

Joystick Controls
Left/Right – Move
Up – Jump
Fire button – Shoot apple seed bullets

SEGA Genesis Controls
Left/Right – Move
B Button - Fire
C Button – Jump

Tips
? After taking damage from an enemy you will be invincible for a
few moments – take advantage of this!
? Some shorter enemies are harder to hit, try jumping and shooting
from a lower position.
? At the end of each level, bonus points are awarded. More points
are awarded if you finish the level in less time, and with a fuller
health bar.

SAND CASTLES
Created by Brian Shea
http://www.metalbabble.com/