Stardust (stardust_2600_v12.bin)
by Brian W. Shea (Metalbabble)
Mon Jan 15, 2018

http://atariage.com/forums/topic/274243-stardust-new-homebrew/?hl=%2Bstardust

Explore the galaxy, zap aliens, blast asteroids, 
uncover the locations of distant planets, and 
defeat the evil forces of the mysterious Dark Queen.

Nominated for best bb homebrew in the 2018 atari awards.

The Story
Deep in distant space, intergalactic war has broken out! The dark queen
has sent her most notorious generals to overtake planets in the
peaceful alliance system.
Your mission is to travel to these worlds, defeat the generals, and
return safely to the star base!

THANK YOU FOR PLAYING STARDUST FOR ATARI 2600

The Dark Queen’s Army
Clone Invader
An alien lifeform capable of making multiple copies of itself. Its species
replicates and spreads like locust throughout the galaxy.
LIKES: Space Exploration
DISLIKES: Laser Blasts

Robot 07-PT prime
Once a bounty hunter, now a cunning warrior for the dark queen used for
special Ops.
LIKES: Complex binary operations
DISLIKES: Cold weather

Graviton
A giant sentient blob of mass that produces gravity waves to stun its enemies.
Graviton is capable of digesting small planets by collapsing their mass with its
gravity.
LIKES: Star Gazing
DISLIKES: Dieting

Star fighter pilots will be rewarded with powerups and upgrades for the defeat of these
nefarious characters!

How to Play
On your mission, you will be in control of a cruiser-class space
fighter. Use the joystick to maneuver the ship through space, using your
navigation computer as a guide. In space, you will encounter asteroids,
space debris, and even hostile alien combatants.
Upon reaching the planets of the alliance system you will enter
into a battle with the invading general.
The cruiser ship is equipped with powerful laser torpedoes and a
shield system. If the cruiser comes in contact with enemies or asteroids
the shield will take damage. If the shield health is completely depleted,
your ship will be destroyed and the mission will fail.
While fighting the generals, you will see their health meter on the
lower-right of the screen. If you defeat a general you will receive a
power up bonus. After defeating all of the generals, report back to the
starting base planet to complete your mission!


Controls
Joystick – Movement (Note that in battle mode, movement is
horizontal only.)
Fire button – Fires laser torpedoes. Also used to start a new game.


Use the reset switch to start, or restart the game.



Power ups
Here are some of the power up rewards for defeating the evil queen’s
generals…
? Hologram generator – creates a hologram ship that fights by your
side.
? Double-hologram generator – creates two ships that fight by your
side.
? Extra points & shield power – Your shield is upgraded and can
take additional hits.


Tips
? After taking damage from an enemy you will be invincible for a
few moments – take advantage of this!
? Watch out! If the cruiser comes into contact with a general, the
cruiser will be instantly destroyed.
? Return to the base to repair your shields.
? Due to their orbit, the location of the planets will change with
each new game.
? While traveling in space, note that the navigation computer
represents 4 adjacent screens with one dot on the map.
? Space contains mysterious “dark matter” which will produce
different effects when encountered. Sometimes asteroids will
produce dark matter when destroyed.

STARDUST
Created by Brian Shea
http://www.metalbabble.com/

Manual: http://brianwayneshea.com/atari/stardust_manual.pdf
http://atari.metalbabble.com/
